Welcome back to week 3.
This week we are going to
focus on data visualization.
Data and analytics is all about
bringing client
challenges to life.
We can help clients overcome
these challenges by taking data,
whether structured
or unstructured,
and turning it into
usable information and insights.
Visualization is a technique
that allows us to
consolidate and view data
in an illustrative manner,
to communicate a message more
clearly or create a platform
where we can
internalize and further
explore our data in
a visual format.
Data can be displayed in
a variety of formats.
An effective data visualization
will help us improve
our ability to make
informed decisions and
judgments from the data
we're analyzing.
Many of you may be
familiar with some of
the basic types of
visualization techniques.
For example, tables,
charts, and graphs.
So how is this different than
something we already know?
During this week, we will
discuss how to enable
effective storytelling through
the correct selection,
creation, and presentation
of tables and charts.
We're going to
start by discussing
data visualization basics and
outline basic design principles.
We'll then go into the theory
behind how to enhance
the effectiveness of
a message through
the use of graphical elements.
There are some general
principles that apply
across all data
visualization projects.
If you can master
these principles,
you can significantly enhance
the effectiveness
of your message.
Following these
foundational videos,
we will go into more detailed
charting demonstration.
Creating graphs and charts of
data visualization are
mainly used for one of
two purposes, exploration
and explanation.
This course will not cover
exploration or finding
the story in detail.
At a high level, charts used for
exploration support
a hypothesis driven
approach and work to
discover something than
the data that was not
previously known or confirmed.
Instead, during this week,
we will focus on charts
with the purpose of
explanation or telling
the story of the data.
We're going to show
you how to build
five common graphs that
we often use here at PWC.
Column graphs,
100 percent stacked charts,
combo graphs, heat maps
and Gantt charts.
We will review how to select
which one is appropriate
for a given purpose and how
to use them most effectively.
Like the previous weeks,
we will be using Excel as
the platform for
creating these graphs.
It is important to
note that there
are systems and
graphing platforms
available for data visualization
which are much more
extensive than Excel.
This course will not cover
how to use these platforms.
However, they are certainly
worth exploring after you've
gained an understanding
of the foundations
of data visualization.
It is important to know
the design principles
you'll be exploring can be
applied in infinite ways across
many different charts,
graphs, and visuals.
It's up to you to figure
out how to best use them.
By the end of this week,
you will be able
to select and build charts that
will effectively tell your story
and further internalize data.
We're seeing that data
and analytics today is
underpinning every kind
of business challenge.
Being able to visualize data in
a meaningful way allows you
to present an analysis,
so that anyone can understand
what the information means.
Enjoy the lessons and
exercises presented this week.
I'll be back at
the end of the week.